packages/migrate/README.md, before:

<br />

<div align="center">
  <h1>Prisma Migrate</h1>
  <p><h3 align="center">Declarative data modeling & schema migrations</h3></p>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/quickstart">Quickstart</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Website</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/">Docs</a>
    <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model">Data model</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://github.com/prisma/prisma-examples/">Examples</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/blog/">Blog</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://slack.prisma.io/">Slack</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/prisma">Twitter</a>
</div>

<hr>

**Prisma Migrate** is an imperative database schema migration tool that enables you to make changes to your database schema. Migrations are auto-generated based on the Prisma schema changes but are fully customizable.

> Please help us improve Prisma Migrate by creating [issues](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/new/choose) and sharing your [feedback](https://slack.prisma.io/) with us.

## Documentation

You can find more info about Prisma Migrate in the [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate). Here are the most relevant pages from the docs:

- [Prisma Migrate](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate)
- [Add Prisma Migrate to an existing project](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/prisma-guides/prisma-migrate-guides/add-prisma-migrate-to-a-project)
- [Set up a new project from scratch with Prisma Migrate](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/setup-prisma/start-from-scratch-typescript-postgres) (15 min)
- [Prisma schema](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema)
- [Data model](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model)
- [Relations](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/relations)

## Contributing

Refer to our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct for contributors](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

chore: added internal disclaimer for Prisma 4

packages/migrate/README.md, after:

<br />

<div align="center">
  <h1>Prisma Migrate</h1>
  <p><h3 align="center">Declarative data modeling & schema migrations</h3></p>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/quickstart">Quickstart</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Website</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/">Docs</a>
    <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model">Data model</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://github.com/prisma/prisma-examples/">Examples</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://www.prisma.io/blog/">Blog</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://slack.prisma.io/">Slack</a>
  <span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/prisma">Twitter</a>
</div>

<hr>

**Prisma Migrate** is an imperative database schema migration tool that enables you to make changes to your database schema. Migrations are auto-generated based on the Prisma schema changes but are fully customizable.

> Please help us improve Prisma Migrate by creating [issues](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/new/choose) and sharing your [feedback](https://slack.prisma.io/) with us.

⚠️ **Warning**: This package is intended for Prisma's internal use.
Its release cycle does not follow SemVer, which means might release breaking changes (change APIs, remove functionality) without any prior warning.

If you are using this package, it would be helpful if you could help us gain an understanding where, how and why you are using it. Your feedback will be valuable to us to define a better API. Please [open a new issue](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/new) with this information. Thanks!

## Documentation

You can find more info about Prisma Migrate in the [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate). Here are the most relevant pages from the docs:

- [Prisma Migrate](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate)
- [Add Prisma Migrate to an existing project](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/prisma-guides/prisma-migrate-guides/add-prisma-migrate-to-a-project)
- [Set up a new project from scratch with Prisma Migrate](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/setup-prisma/start-from-scratch-typescript-postgres) (15 min)
- [Prisma schema](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema)
- [Data model](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model)
- [Relations](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/relations)

## Contributing

Refer to our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct for contributors](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
